There’s a large body of water on the map. Where is it? What does it look like? or here’s a giant, man-made structure on the map. Where is it? Why is it abandoned?,
Someone new arrives. Who? or Two of the community’s younger members get into a fight. What provoked them?,
What important and basic tools does the community lack? or Where are you storing your food? Why is this a risky place to store things?,
here is a disquieting legend about this place. What is it? or Alarming weather patterns destroy something. How and what?,
Are there children in your community? If there are, what is their role in the community? or How old are the eldest members of the community? What special needs do they have?,
Where does everyone sleep? Who is unhappy with this arrangement, and why? or What natural predators roam this area? Are you safe?,
An old piece of machinery is discovered, broken but perhaps repairable. What is it? What would it be useful for? or An old piece of machinery is discovered, cursed and dangerous. How does the community destroy it?,
A charismatic young girl convinces many to help her with an elaborate scheme. What is it? Who joins her endeavors? Start a project to reflect. or A charismatic young girl tries to tempt many into sinful or dangerous activity. Why does she do this? How does the community respond?,
here’s another community somewhere on the map. Where are they? What sets them apart from you? or What belief or practice helps to unify your community?,
You see a good omen. What is it? or You see a bad omen. What is it?,
What’s the most beautiful thing in this area? or What’s the most hideous thing in this area?,
A young boy starts digging in the ground, and discovers something unexpected. What is it? or An old man confesses to past crimes and atrocities. What has he done?,
What group has the highest status in the community? What must people do to gain inclusion in this group? or Are there distinct family units in the community? If so, what family structures are common?