Someone new arrives. Who? Why are they in distress? or Someone leaves the community. Who? What are they looking for?,
Summer is a time for production and tending to the
earth. Start a project related to food production. or Summer is a time for conquest and the gathering of might. Start a project related to military readiness and conquest.,
The eldest among you dies. What caused the death? or The eldest among you is very sick. Caring for them and searching for a cure requires the help of the entire community. Do not reduce project dice this week.,
A project finishes early.
What led to its early completion? or The weather is nice and people can feel the potential all around them. Start a new project.,
Outsiders arrive in the area. Why are they a threat? How are they vulnerable? or Outsiders arrive in the area. How many? How are they greeted?,
Introduce a mystery at the edge of the map. or An unattended situation becomes problematic and scary. What is it? How does it go awry?,
Someone tries to take control of the community by force. Do they succeed? Why do they do this? or A headstrong community member decides to put one of their ideas in motion. Start a foolish project.,
A project fails. Which one? Why? or Something goes foul and supplies are ruined.
Add a new Scarcity.,
You discover a cache of supplies or resources.
Add a new Abundance. or A Scarcity has gone unaddressed for too long!
Start a project that will alleviate that Scarcity.,
Predators and bad omens are afoot. You are careless, and someone goes missing under ominous circumstances. Who? or Predators and bad omens are afoot. What measures do you take to keep everyone safe and under surveillance? Do not reduce project dice this week.,
A project finishes early. Which one? Why?
If there are no projects underway, boredom leads to quarrel.
A fight breaks out between two people. What is it about?,
Summer is fleeting. Discard the top two cards off the top of the deck and take two actions this week.,
A contingent within the community demand to be heard. Who are they? What are they asking for? or A contingent within the community have acted on their frustrations. What have they damaged, and why did they damage it? Is it permanent?