A headstrong community member takes charge of the community’s work efforts. A project fails, and then a different project finishes early. or A headstrong community member tries to take control of
the community. How are they prevented from doing this? Due to the conflict, project dice are not reduced this week.,
Someone comes up with an ingenious solution to a big problem and as a result a project finishes early. What was their idea? or Someone comes up with a plan to ensure safety and comfort during the coldest months. Start a project related to this.,
All the animals and young children are crying and won’t stop. Hold a discussion about this,
in addition to your regular action for the week. or A great atrocity is revealed. What is it? Who uncovers it?,
Winter elements destroy a food source. If this was your only food source, add a Scarcity. or Winter elements leave everyone cold, tired, and miserable.
Project dice are not reduced this week.,
The time has come to consolidate your efforts and your borders. Projects located outside the settlement fail, and all remaining projects are reduced by 2 this week. or Someone finds a curious opportunity on the edge of the map. Start a project related to this discovery.,
What is winter like in this area? How do community members react to the weather?,
Winter is harsh, and desperation gives rise to fear mongering. Choose one:
• Spend the week calming the masses and dispelling their violent sentiments. The week ends immediately. • Declare war on someone or something. This counts as starting a project.,
Someone goes missing. They’re alone in the winter elements. Choose one:
• The community organizes constant search parties and eventually the person is found. Project dice are not reduced this week. • No one ever hears from that person again.,
In preparation for the coming year, the community begins a huge undertaking.
Start a project that will take at least 5 weeks to complete.,
An infected outsider arrives, seeking amnesty. They have some much-needed resources with them. Choose one:
• Welcome them into the community. Remove a Scarcity, but also introduce an infection into the community.
• Bar them from entry. What Scarcity could they have addressed? How does its need become more dire this week?,
You see a good omen. What is it?,
The Frost Shepherds arrive. The game is over.,
Now is the time to conserve energy and resources. A project fails, but gain an Abundance. or Now is the time for hurried labour and final efforts. A project finishes early, but gain a Scarcity.